In this lesson we will be covering
the Shell History, how to repeat commands.
Or portions of commands with
the Exclamation Mark Syntax, and
how to use Autocompletion.
Each command you enter into the shell
is recorded in your shell history,
having access to your shell
history is extremely useful.
You can search through your shell history,
repeat commands that
you've previously entered.
And even recall previous commands, and
change them slightly before
executing them again.
Not only can this save you
time in keystrokes, but
it can prevent you from making mistakes by
running a previously known, good command.
Some shells like bash keep
their history in memory, and
only write the history to a file on exit.
Common history files include
.bash_history, .history and .histfile.
These history files are stored
in your home directory.
The history command displays
the commands in your shell history.
It proceeds each one of
the commands with a number,
that can be used to reference
that command at a later time.
By default, bash retains 500
commands in your shell history.
This is controlled by the HISTSIZE
environment variable.
If you want to increase this number,
add export HISTSIZE equals some number,
and place that in your
personal initialization files.
You can use then exclamation
mark history expansion syntax to
rerun a command by number.
Run the history command to get a list of
commands, that are preceded by a number.
If you want to rerun command
number three in your history,
you would type exclamation
mark three enter.
Sometimes the exclamation mark
is abbreviated, or called bang.
So if I were to say bang three, you know
that that means the exact same thing,
as exclamation mark three.
If you want to repeat the previous
command, you can use bang, bang enter.
If you wanna repeat a command that
starts with a certain letter, or
string, you can enter bang
followed by that string.
For example, let's say you want
to repeat the cat command,
you executed a few moments earlier.
You can simply enter bang c enter.
In addition to executing entire
commands in your history,
you can pull out parts of a command line.
The syntax is bang colon number,
the bang represents an event.
You can use the bang syntax we
just talked about, bang number,
or bang string, or bang, bang.
When pulling outwards from a previous
command, you can abbreviate bang,
bang to just bang.
The number in this syntax represents a
word on the command line, zero represents
the first word on the command line,
which is always going to be a command.
One represents the second word on
the command line, an easy way to think
about this, is that it represents
the first argument to the command.
Let's say you execute this command,
head files.txt sorted_files.txt notes.txt.
To repeat that entire command,
type bang bang enter, if you want to
pull out the second argument to
the previous command, use bang colon two.
V I bang colon two is equivalent
to vi sorted_files.text.
In this example bang colon
zero is equivalent to head
!:1 files.text, !:2 sorted_files.text.
And !:3 notes.text,
here are two more exclamation
marks syntax shortcuts.
The first is bang carrot,
bang carrot represents the first
argument to a command,
it's the same as bang colon one.
The next shortcut is bang dollar,
which represents the last
word on a command line.
In this example command line,
!^=files.txt and !$ represents notes.txt.
If you wanted to edit notes.txt,
you could count the number of
words on the command line,
and use vi!:3, or
save the counting, and
a character, and simply type vi!$.
You can search for
commands in your history,
to start a reverse shell history search,
type Ctrl-r.
Your prompt changes to reflect
that you are performing a search.
Start typing in characters
from the previous command,
that you are searching for.
If the first result returned,
is not what you're looking for
type Ctrl-r again to get
the next previous match.
To execute the command as it is,
simply press the Enter key.
If you want to modify the command
before executing it use the left,
or right arrow keys to start
navigating the command line.
Make your changes, and
type enter to execute the command,
to cancel your search, and
return to the prompt type Ctrl-g.
Another way to increase your
efficiency at the command line,
is by using Tab Completion.
After you start typing a command, you can
hit the tab key to invoke tab completion.
Tab attempts to automatically
complete partially typed commands.
If there are multiple commands
that begin with the same string,
that proceeds tab,
those commands will be displayed.
You may need to hit the tab key twice,
in order to reveal the possible
completion options.
You can continue to type and
press tab again, when there is only one
possibility remaining, pressing
the tab key will complete the command.
Tab completion not only works on commands,
but it also works on files, and
directories.
You can even use tab completion for
environment variables, or
usernames when using
the tilde expansion syntax.
Once you spend some time
experimenting with tab completion,
it will become second nature.
The history command,
displays a list of commands in your
shell history preceded by a number.
To run commands with a number,
you can type bang and the number.
So bang 1 will run the first command
in our history, which is history.
Let's run another command here, HISTSIZE.
To rerun the previous command,
we can use the bang bang syntax.
And that displays the command
that's going to be executed,
then it executes that command, and then
it returns the output from that command.
Let's repeat the history command,
this time let's use the bang, and
a string syntax.
So you can use bang h for the most
previous command that started with h.
If we want to run the echo command,
we can use bang 2 since it is
number two in our history list.
And then again, it displays what
it's going to run, runs it, and
then provides the output.
Let's look at this ls command.
Again to run a previous
command over again bang bang.
If we want to pull out portions of
that command, we can use bang colon,
and all number syntax.
So let's type echo !:2 to grab
the second argument of this command.
So ls is zero, files is one,
sorted files is two, and notes is three.
So echo !:2 should return
echo sorted files.txt.
And then it prints the command
that it's going to run, and
then the output of that command.
So again, if we want to run a command
that starts with a particular letter,
we could do that again with !l.
So let's pull that up, so
we've run our ls command again.
So if we want to just pull out the last
thing on the previous command line,
we can use !$, so echo notes.txt.
Let's pull up our ls command again,
If we want to run,
the first argument to the previous
command, we can use echo !^.
And that pulls out
files.text since it's out,
since it was the first
argument on this command line.
Let's run some more commands here.
Echo alpha bravo charlie.
This will grab out the first argument to
the previous command which will be alpha.
And then we can use the bang
syntax to specify an event.
Let's [INAUDIBLE] the command that began
with l, so this should be our ls line.
And let's pull out,
two sorted files from it, and
then let's just put in
some more text here delta.
And then we'll pull out
the ls command again, and
then the zero word, or
the command itself from that event.
So you can see we have echo alpha
sorted_files.text delta ls.
If we want to perform a reverse search,
we can type Ctrl-r, and then you see
that the prompt changes to say,
that you're performing a reverse search.
I'm just going to search for echo,
so i'll start typing in e, and c.
So it pulls up the previous command,
the previous echo command.
if that's not the one we're looking for,
we can type Ctrl-r again, and
we can get the next previous command.
And then Ctrl-r again, and
then if we find the command we want,
we can just hit enter to
execute that command.
Let's do the same thing again.
Hit Ctrl-r to go to a different command,
and if we want to modify this command
before we execute it, let's just press an
arrow key, and then edit the command line.
So let's take off these items, and
then press enter,
if you're doing a reverse search,
and you decide that you
really don't want to do that.
You can cancel it with Ctrl-g, and
that brings you back to your prompt, and
nothing has been executed.
Let's look at how tab completion works,
let's type the word who,
and then hit tab tab.
So there are two possible expansions here,
if I type the letter A and hit tab.
There is only one option, and
it completes that command.
And hit Enter, and it runs that command.
Let's do the same thing with files,
so let's type ls file.
Hit tab a couple of times, and it shows
our choices here, let's do files.txt.
Let's show how this can be pretty quick,
if I type ls sorted_files.txt
notes.txt,and
hit enter that's fairly fast typing.
But if you use tab completion
it can be a lot quicker.
So I just typed ls space so
tab, and then n tab,
and that did the file completion for us.
You could also use tab completion for
environment variables,
so we know the HIST environment variable.
Or the HISTSIZE environment
variable controls,
how many commands
are stored in our history.
So let's just look at this H-I-S-T,
and tab.
And then you can see that there are,
those are our few options
that are in our environment.
So I'll just hit s, and
then press tab, and it completes it.
You also can do the tab
completion with usernames,
with the tilde expansion syntax.
So tilde represents your home directory,
if you don't give it an argument,
so that's home Jason.
If we type in ~adm and
hit tab a couple of times,
we can see that there are two users
that begin with ~adm on our system.
So let's just type an i, because we want
to see the admin user's home directory.
Hit tab, it autocompletes,
and we'll press enter,
and then that displays /home/adminuser/.
In this lesson we talked about
how Shell History is stored.
And how the number commands that saves,
can be manipulated by the HISTSIZE
environment variable.
The exclamation mark syntax, though
a little complicated, is very powerful.
You can use it to repeat entire
commands from your shell history,
or extract portions of previous commands.
Using the tab key to perform
autocompletion can increase your
efficiency, speed up your workflow,
and prevent typing mistakes.